almost any form of political action or
political intervention it's susceptible
to a critique as cultural imperialism
when you're questioning whether or not
something is cultural imperialism you're
basically asking is one group trying to
impose set of alien cultural values on
another group and veganism is no
exception this question has lately been
put to veganism and it's going to be put
to veganism and animal rights again and
again that's not because cultural
imperialism is such a vague and poorly
defined concept that it applies to all
things equally I think it's because it's
a meaningful sort of challenge in
question for all of us to face up to
whether we're talking about white people
in Canada trying to eliminate seal
hunting for indigenous people that's
within Canada but two different cultures
having a debate about the morality of
one form of fur production you may also
be talking about urban white people in
Canada trying to eliminate fur
production out of mink caged mink
growing it raised in captivity living
their whole life in a steel cage and
sometimes the defense for that that's
offer it is oh well you're wealthy white
people from the city and you don't
understand these poor and downtrodden
rural farmers and their culture so again
this is sort of defense mimicking these
questions of cultural imperialism in
other cases I mean you can look at
something as direct as Christian
missionaries who go to a foreign country
and say look now you're going to convert
to Christianity and you're not going to
eat dog meat anymore because good
Christians don't do that Christians eat
cow and not dogs because that makes
sense if you believe in Christianity um
there's something about it in the Bible
somewhere we promise in my own reading
of history you know I have my own biases
and I'm not Christian and I'm also
someone who's really
keenly aware of the evils that have been
brought about through Christian cultural
imperialism so I generally read history
with the presumption that the Christians
are the bad guys and that my role as the
pious reader of history looking back
with hindsight is to condemn them and
disagree with them and imagine to myself
that I would do something so much better
and so different if I were in the
position of these people whether
centuries ago or decades ago or still
today however you know the history of
indigenous peoples colonized by
Christianity has included human
sacrifice ritual violence of various
kinds I remember one of the habits
common that's never been explained to my
knowledge man through pology among the
indigenous peoples of Australia was of
actually cutting off one finger of a
young woman and what i read nobody ever
really figured out what the religious
significance of that was but it was for
some ritual reason that a lot of young
women were were missing a finger that
had been removed intentionally uh on the
island of taiwan prior to the arrival of
the Chinese so these are the indigenous
people of Taiwan who are not Chinese
their language is not Chinese their
culture their ethnicity their their non
Chinese people when the Christian
missionaries arrived there they had the
most gruesome tradition of compulsory
abortion imaginable if you read about
this it'll give you nightmares and it's
almost kneel to say we're not talking
about surgical abortion we're not
talking about a modern medical abortion
and when you read about some of these
extreme examples you have to realize or
at least I have to realize that despite
my bias against Christianity as one of
the cultural genocide enterprises of
human history as one of the most
despicable lamentable and regrettable
aspects of Western European civilization
that was unleashed on the world with the
you know
the whip and the sword despite my own
bias I often have to recognize yeah you
know what if I were alive at that time
the cultural change I would be
advocating for would be the abolition of
slavery would be the abolition of
rituals where you cut off a human finger
would be the abolition of you know in
Taiwan this gruesome ritual Ian forced
abortion and so on um all kinds of
superstitious reasons for infanticide
it's it's a bitter pill to swallow we
would like to prefer we might all prefer
to imagine ourselves as having a
perfectly egalitarian view of all
cultures but if we're interested in
cultural change if we're interested in
political intervention to bring about
cultural change then we are necessarily
admitting to ourselves that sometimes
culture is wrong when I lived in France
I had to pick out baby food for my
newborn infant daughter the shelves in
France are dominated with veal there's
some cultural conception in France that
the natural thing to feed a newborn baby
like three months old six months old is
a dead baby cow like to me this is like
vampire mythology I mean you imagine
that in evolutionary history the way
human beings evolved millions of years
ago was that a newborn baby with no
teeth would leap from its mother's
breast attack a cow kill it and eat it
like you know obviously this is so
much the product of you know an
industrialized culture that's capable of
killing these animals and processing
them into baby food
into some unrecognizable muck in a glass
jar you know cost ten dollars so that
the parents can convince themselves that
their newborn baby is I don't know
getting enough protein and iron I mean
no I don't feel bad at all in
interrupting French culture and saying
hey guess what evil I think this is sick
and twisted and demented and I want your
culture to change because I'm a
self-righteous vegan and I think I know
better than you and I would never feed
my daughter veal and I would never
reveal as an adult and blah blah blah
I'm a white male and my last name is
mazhar I can pass for French don't ask
me if I can speak French my French is
terrible nevertheless people seem to
regard that form of cultural imperialism
cultural contest Asia in a pretty
relaxed way when i was living in
southeast asia in a country called laos
that you've heard mentioned on this
channel before if you're a regular
viewer i was in the capital city in VN
10 i read about and i spoke to some
government officials about a local
practice there which is cultural of
women starving themselves during
pregnancy especially during the third
trimester and these women fast they
intentionally eat almost nothing and to
make themselves feel full to help them
with this they eat a lot of bamboo soup
so that's just in water salt a little
bit of oil and chopped up bamboo shoots
and the result is among other things
brain damage to the unborn child if the
mother intentionally deprives herself of
nutrition during the third trimester
reduced brain development is a well
established scientific fact this is not
the only horrendous thing I could
mention about Lao culture they have a
cultural habit of
adding a nail polish thinner to fruit
juice especially mashed up sugar cane
juice if I were to try to convince my
lotion colleagues that it is wrong and
bad and evil for them to continue in
these cultural traditions that are
harming themselves and harming others
harming future generations does that
make me a cultural a cultural
imperialist yeah maybe maybe I'm a jerk
but maybe some things are important
enough that you've got to take the risk
and be a jerk and maybe it'll turn out
well for you and maybe it'll be a
disaster I remember a sex advice
columnist I don't read advice columns in
newspapers intentionally or anything but
I remember sitting around in an airport
killing time so you know you end up
reading kind of every page in the
newspaper even if you didn't mean to um
and someone wrote to this advice advice
columnist saying look you know I have a
big crush on this person who's a
coworker at my office and I don't want
to make things awkward and I don't want
to be a jerk but she's arranged I think
she had given notice she was going to
quit the job in the next three months
and you know if I don't try to talk to
her now I'll probably never see her
again and the advice columnist wrote
back and said look you're right if you
talk to her and you try to start a
relationship maybe it'll be awkward
maybe you'll be a jerk being an adult
means sometimes you have to make tough
decisions sometimes you have to take the
risk that it'll be awkward and it'll be
your fault and you'll be a jerk so you
have to decide if the risk is worth
taking and the advice columnist says I
think you should be a grown-up
I think you should take the risk I think
you should go ahead and be a jerk